	1. Need to check
 
Trailing PE ( last 12 months)
Forward PE ( next 12 months ) 
PEG

What is PE -- stock price / EPS




Need to check the sales of the company
In the below one it decreased two quarters and stock went down on that result days. 



Eps earning per share -- total profit of a company / no of share in that company. 




	2. How to find company will have growth or not and at what price it will be in the future by using PE and management guidance like below 






Like this management give guidancelike they grow 9% CAGR or 12% or low side 6% by this we can calculate the future price of the stock. 



Can we check that in screener also but it will be past I think 





	3. Every one will tell stock will raise but need to understand on which basis it will raise is really that stock has growth or not.
	4.  Need to check the PEG ratio
	 It is calculated like Stock PE/ Growth 
	
	On the market basis peg less than 1 or below 2 rarely are good companies because of their growth perspective. 
	
	

	5. But every company or sector relayed focus on different ratios or other parameters to consider it 
	 
	
	
	
	*****Some tips-- always look for micro companies from macro companies like uno madrin , kpit technology who supplies technology and equipment to the automobile industries like tata motors and other companies.
	
	
	----------------------------------------------------------
	
	Another tip --- by buying with mutual fund investors mind
	
	1. First level of analysis
	
	Search in the internet like Quant mutual fund portfolio monthly
	
	https://quantmutual.com/statutory-disclosures
	
	
	Ppfas Parikh
	
	https://amc.ppfas.com/downloads/portfolio-disclosure/
	
	
	**** These above reports have everything like how they are taking option positions where they are buying the futures and investment of stocks data both in India and outside countries. ( example PPFAS fund) 
	
	Parikh parag observed by DTT due to their valuation buying strategy.
	
	Ppfas flexi cap has all funds large, small, mid cap.
	
	
	To check the data simply we can check in money control app.
	
	https://www.moneycontrol.com/mutual-funds/nav/parag-parikh-flexi-cap-fund-regular-plan/MPP001
	
	We can also check this in trendlyne website..
	
	https://trendlyne.com/portfolio/superstar-shareholders/custom/?query=parag%20parikh%20flexi%20cap%20fund
	
	
	Compare the mutual funds with other where we have conviction for 6 months tjen we will know what they are doing and how they playing the cycles by simply checking them in Moneycontrol.
	
	2. Second level analysis
           After checking the data we can analysis that one sector wise  is doing well they increasing the shares like private banking HDfC, Icici , kotak then we can follow one pick and analysis it and buy them.
We can trust the mutual funds because they are investing their 30% amount in top companies and some small caps by analysis we need to choose in good way.




	3. Then take that stock name and compare it in the market like search in Google" kotak mahindra bank mutuaobfund activity trendlyne"


	 
	After this go down and we will know which mutual funds also holding these share of stocks percentage.
	
	
	
	4. Stage 4 then we can take that stock name and analysis In deep 
	 like parameter-- Book value , peg ratio ( above) , sales , revenue , PBT ( all are growing or not), for banks ( gross Npa, net Npa), promoters shareholding, etc 
	
	***** Check complete fundamental analysis and other parameters to follow to buy a stock from money purse
	
	
	Important parameters like for buying stock ---
	
	
	ఈ FALL లో మంచి STOCKS ఎలా కొనాలి
	
	
		○ Categorize the industry ( not more than two buying in same industry).
		○ How many years you want to hold when to buy and sell.
		○ When everyone investing on trending one like semiconductor better to invest in negative opinion or people ignored sectors or stock which will give good returns for 2 to 5 years.
		○ Valuation comfort check option chain and technical parameters .
		○ Taxation calculation for selling the stock below one year choose some stocks to sell for taxation.
		○  Check the all parameter for stock buying like any selling bulk deals, any announcements from management, merger details, results announcement.
		○ ****Try to check the management comments and annual reports and concalls pots .
		○ Have the better conviction first this will apply at daily analysis.
		○ Check the mutual fund data also mentioned by DTT in above data
		○ That company has profits and dealing associated with other countries 
		○ Monopoly or future treats to that company
		○ Check the option chain and future contracts and nifty weightage of that stock. 
		○ Need to check any recession globally or in the country will happen
		○ If you entered in the stock and stock already realized the growth of 5 years in 3 months due to greed exit it.
		○ When you buy you need to know when to sell that I mean you know the growth put the indicator for the stock.
		○ If there is a solar company will it win multiple orders every year to sustain long term.
		○ Don't fall for big big companies check their growth only.
		○ If big companies like reliance enters into solar then it will be big threat need to check the facts to exit. 
		○ Check Twitter for further data like how much they exporting and importing, whether there investment country suffering or not.
		○ How many months or years you can put your money also plays a important role.
		○ It's like a growth company like in future also or like semiconductor one like for few years growth.
		○ You need to check when buying stocks is that stock given no returns in any year and why.
		○ Check their growth like profit and eps decreasing or increasing 
		○ Check operating margin, pat, Ebita for the company how it is growing in yoy or qoq 
		○ Check diis increasing the holdings or decreasing it and check fiis and retail investors also
		○ Promoters have any cases or not check this  first
		○ If I buy the stock how much it will grow in next 2 to 5 years or it will be consolidation state for next year's and not much growth compared to last 5 years 
		○ After selecting the stock need to check is that stock no 1 in that segment or sector 
		○ If one sector company is good but check for their parent company I'd doing well than this and that company is in another country also best 
		○ Will margin will be impacted if any other competitive company comes there like Jio in Airtel idea segment example
		○ If stock falls don’t do value trap check it and enter otherwise it won't grow and consolidate
		○ Need to check how that stock is behaving in different market conditions is it gown Down then index when market is low vice versa
		○ Need to check fear and greed index 
		○ We need to check the peg that pe in some cases due to the growth will be there in the future or not 
		○ Check that portfolio level of that stock if we invest and future growty to sell as primary one 
		○ Exports and imports for chemical, services from India government monthly to check the value of the stock 
		○ Need to see valuation sometimes with peg or forward pe not with pe
		○ Rhp statement which had promoter background any case's or not
		○ Cash conversation cycle and margins
		○ Promoter buying check genuinely 
		○ Is company playing margin game like micron or Samsung in 2023 before to win market share 
		
		
		
	
	
	
	

	Check revenus, Ebita, pat, any exceptional gains added ( minus them from pat for real growth with yoy and qoq comparison)  everything like above) .
	
	
	Mutual funds---
	
	If we have huge amount we can investment as lumsum amount in the mutual fund make it good vs best investment between mfs and stocks
	
	Debt funds best for if we need money in 5 months like that but explore this one 
	
	Down one also important check list while buying stock. 
	.
	
	
	Important point for not buying stocks---/
	
	
	
	Need to check these 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	1. ****Read the concalls transcripts and concalls which has less data than annual report for easy understanding. We can get the conviction by this and by seeing the ppt. Here will get the data from the retailer questions and what management answered and there future growth.
	
	

	
	
	6. Data will be shared in the group or in the crazy naval Twitter account of PPFAS flexi cap fund.
	
	We can compare the data by below highlighted in yellow.
	
	Coal India has good dividend yield like 6.8%
	
	
	
	
	
	7. Important step 
         We need to check the logic when mutual fund report selling the stock you holding because they have some issues with stock like margins impact, profit any other management comments search Google. 


Complete guide -------------->>>>>

Other parameters

Select only 4 categories sectors and maintain 3 stocks each and in that 3 stocks allocate large cap(50), mid(25) cap, small cap(25) like this add.  

Conference calls --- will be there in trendlyne YouTube need to listen about the stocks 

Investors mainly track about the sales and net profit and they compare the growth prospects and margins also important.

For example take ceigall----


Above march June Sept Dec profits decreased and net profit also not good due to this stock fell from top to low from December 2024 to April like this you need to compare.. Above operating margins decreased due to costs, raw materials, etc. 




Some have seasonality issues we need to compare them yearly or one particular quarter for example June sales will be more than other for beverage companies Due to summer 


